the refusal to allow
human sexuality to be shallow
is itself shallow the insistence
that human sexuality is of
spiritual significance is itself
shallow i learned the bare minimum in
school about
sex so i took some further education
into my own hands and started watching
porn
i just think that the kind of porn and
sex that i was watching
at a young age was just really scarring
and not okay
for my soul and my body and my spirit
like i did a video entitled ladies
stop hooking up a few months ago after
making that video
many angry people said that i had
different standards for men
and for women that i thought men could
sleep around while women
should wait here's the deal both men and
women
should stop hooking up there's a lot
that you don't learn from porn but i
started watching it
and i started exploring my body really
young i would do it in a mirror just
because i was so curious what everything
looked like and what everything did
i am really grateful that my first
sexual experiences were all with myself
in my room in my safe space and i think
that sexual exploration on your own is
the most important thing when you're
healing your sexual energy trying to
reclaim your body
giving that orgasm to yourself sharing
that magic just with yourself
if everyone could just wait until they
got married the world would be a much
better place
so men here's my advice to you stop
hooking up you might think that you'll
have street cred if you sleep with a
certain number of women
that's a bunch of lies first of all
sleeping with a certain number of women
to prove to your male friends that you
can keep up
is a useless endeavor the same guys who
care
or would be impressed with your number
are the same guys who don't deserve your
respect
in the first place and at the end of the
day it won't make people like you
it will rot your relationships and
poison your friendships
watching eight person gangbangs or
watching
i don't know just there's so much stuff
online that i don't think young people
should be absorbing and learning about
sex through because we just get such a
skewed perception about
how this sacred exchange is supposed to
go down being
confident in who you are personable fun
and charming
will make you cooler and more popular
than any number of women that you sleep
with would
i started to explore with other people
in my life i
didn't have any boundaries i didn't know
how to communicate
i didn't know about consent i didn't
know that i could say no and this
of course brought me into a lot of
situations that i really didn't like and
i felt like my body language i would try
to say something
and they wouldn't understand it or i
would say no once and they would just
try and convince me to keep going to do
certain sexual acts like
the boys that were my age that i was
hooking up with and
i was like okay i already said no and
they're still trying
and so i guess like i'm powerless in
this situation
and i kind of got used to those kinds of
sexual exchanges
all throughout not only my like initial
high school looking up life experience
but even up until
my late teens and early 20s and i felt
really
awkward and introverted and shy and ugly
and i was just like i'm just here
like i'm lucky if someone wants to do
anything with me
there's a male fear that if you're a
virgin it would indicate that you
have no appeal or that you're bad at sex
that's not the way it works
a woman won't think that no woman would
sleep with you
she will think that you had options and
still made the harder choice
good women want a good man and if you're
confident in your choice to wait until
marriage
it will only reflect well on you and it
is embarrassing the amount of times i
walked to a guy's house
smoked with him got taken advantage of
did things i didn't want to do and then
walked myself back home
at like 3 a.m alone i'm just like they
were so lucky
i didn't even realize how much power i
had having multiple partners before
marriage
does not add to your relationship it
opens the door to comparisons
jealousies and other drama especially if
one or both of the partners has a
history of no strings attached
hookups you might think that you won't
catch feelings if you sleep around
even if you don't catch feelings you're
training yourself to think of sex as no
more than a physical act
i started to feel that my body wasn't a
safe space especially as i actually
started developing boobs and
getting a lot more attention from the
opposite sex i just started to feel like
my body gets me into trouble and my body
just
makes me feel pain and my body makes me
feel used and
objectified and initially i was really
excited to like
get boobs and to be you know attractive
and finally start getting attention from
boys
but then i started to get slut-shamed in
my school boys would
say things about me that weren't true i
wasn't like i thought before because i
wasn't pretty
or cool enough or rich enough or
whatever but now
i'm not being liked just because of the
way that i look and it just felt
it just felt backwards and it made me
start to feel unsafe in my body
i think that this is where the
internalized massage me started to kick
in
because i felt like then my only power
was in my sexuality
and i just assumed that that's
all people were looking at or valuing me
for also
you are sleeping with another person and
it's not all about you you might be
leading this woman on or giving her the
wrong idea
and that's just plain wrong you might
think that you just like sex and you
want to do it
no matter what stds pregnancy scares
hurting women who actually care about
you treating sex like a compulsion
and losing out on the opportunity to
meet the right woman
isn't fun but i had an experience of
sexual assault when i was working at a
country club
with my boss who was so much older than
me when i was 15 years old i was
15 in junior year i graduated at 17 so i
was pretty
young i'm sure that other people are
like in that same age range
but i think that was one of the last
straws where i just really started to
become
undone and feel just so shameful and
resentful of my body
he got me drunk and left me with no one
else to take me home
some things went down that i don't want
to talk about and then
i went to work like a few days later
maybe even the next day and it was like
everyone at my office knew about it at
my job but
i just felt shameful you know i felt so
embarrassed about what happened i just
felt like it was all on me
and that he didn't do anything wrong and
i just felt embarrassed
because everyone was talking about this
thing and no one at all in any way was
like are you okay
are you like what happened um because i
was 15 and he was definitely in his
like mid to late 40s and so i quit my
job kind of just left
and never went back and i feel like i
just
went a little bit crazy after that
hooking up
is wasting your time it's like endlessly
scrolling on twitter
swiping on tinder or playing video games
mindlessly for hours on end
you are titillating yourself for the
surge of dopamine that takes
meaning out of your life so i was
hooking up with people that i didn't
care about that i felt
unsafe with eventually this kind of
settled down when i started talking to
this girl who i really
like i dated her for a month i think
and we had sex and it was really nice i
started to feel safe again
and what i can say about all of my
experiences with women because i started
hooking up with girls when i was really
young in like 8th grade
first kiss with a girl i was stoned in
my living room couch and we made out
and it was amazing so with this girl the
first girl that i hooked up with
it felt so safe and so consensual and i
was like whoa
okay i can have this level of respect
during
sex it's vindicating to love and be
loved by someone
who you would give everything to and who
would do the same for you
i really learned that if someone can't
respect my boundaries then there's no
point of having them in my life because
why would you want someone in your life
who doesn't respect you or honor you
physically and especially if they're not
honoring you physically then they
probably won't honor you spiritually
and i was like wow i'm really letting
the universe know
what i'm worthy of receiving before i
was letting all these people in
who didn't treat me how i deserved and
were giving me
like less than half of what i was
actually looking for in a sexual
exchange or
you know a partner and now that i've
said no repeatedly to those kinds of
connections i'm making space i've made
space for something so much more loving
fulfilling something that i can really
grow with people think of marriage as
something for the future
they say they're too selfish to get
married or too immature
or they're just not ready for such a
huge commitment you may have used these
excuses yourself
or you've definitely heard a friend say
them but here's the truth
you don't flip a switch that tells you
that you're ready to get married
you don't flip a switch at 30 or when
you've slept with a certain number of
women or at any other life milestone
and know that it's time for you to
settle down your own mentality and the
choices that you make are the only
things that can prepare you to get
married
basically nothing that you can feel is
wrong none of your kinks or desires as
long as you're not hurting anyone
um yeah there is space for everything
that you feel and everything that you
are and please affirm that to yourself
in this moment
some feminists say that women should act
more like men
and hook up in the same way that men do
but here's the truth
men should act more like women treat sex
with the respect
it deserves don't waste your time
sleeping around and treating sex like
it's just another bodily need
you have to take the steps to make you
capable of marriage
and that starts with stopping hooking up
because hooking up doesn't just stop you
from moving forward
it actively moves you back
it's relatively easy to ridicule the
large
traditional organized religions
christianity judaism and islam for
example
um for the strictures they place on
sexuality
and the convoluted series of
self-justifications they have to go
through
to make it seem that their subjective
perspective
on sexuality is the only objectively
viable one
it's a little bit more difficult to take
a dispassionate look
at what members of alternative religions
do
and free thinkers who don't consider
themselves religious the ways in which
those people
tend to end up reinventing
the same structures and living their
lives very much
by the same sort of rationale in the
clips
i played at the start of this video you
might have thought i was just
contrasting two people
from opposite extremes
partly true it's also fair to say that
the two people
being contrasted are engaging in very
much the same
mind game in presenting
their spiritual values as something they
discover
within human sexuality and then used to
justify
completely arbitrary choices they've
made in their lives
choices like believing that a book
that tells you to cut off part of your
penis
is the will of god it gets that crazy
and on the other hippie hindu buddhist
new age self-selected side of the
equation things get even crazier
if i were to say i had any bias one way
or the other
in this contrast with the two sides by
the way i'd point out that at least the
people who are engaged in
alternative religion and people who
consider themselves free thinkers
at least they're aware that they've made
a choice but at some point they took
their library card
or they went to the bookstore and they
got that book off the shelf
you know that they chose their own path
no matter how terrible no matter how
pathetic
no matter how regrettable a choice it is
they may have made it is at least a
choice that
that they can take some some greater
degree of uh of responsibility for
i had a professor who taught buddhism
and uh to my knowledge he was never a
buddhist monk
but he had lived in a monastery he had
received buddhist monastic training
up to a certain level one of his
students
was a fully grown man in his 30s
and the professor ended up
sleeping with or stealing the student's
girlfriend
to the best of my knowledge that
professor
and that student's girlfriend who was at
least in her 30s if not her 40s by the
way these are all
grown adults um to the best of my
knowledge the professor
and the student's girlfriend they're
still together as a couple
to this day um
the professor you can imagine he's a
white
western guy raised christian
who at some point rebelled against that
christianity
and became a bohemian and a free spirit
and you know at some point ends up
living in a buddhist monastery
and at some point ends up finishing his
phd and becoming a professor
teaching buddhism the usual and at some
point also
uh he lost he lost his faith in
in buddhism and just that part of the
story
i can relate to myself i was a rather
nihilistic buddhist
when i was part of the buddhist religion
but i now identify as an ex-buddhist as
someone who's no longer
a part of the buddhist religion having
returned to canada after many years of
of living in asia now
the strangest thing was that this
friend of mine a fully grown man
started having a relationship with a
female professor
okay so these are all heterosexual
couples and
everyone involved is over 30 years of
age nevertheless
[Music]
nevertheless and this professor at our
university is sleeping with my friend's
ex-girlfriend and this bohemian
ex-buddhist professor just utterly
condemns
this friend of mine for having this
affair for having this relationship
with a professor pot kettle black
um absolutely harshly condemns him
and i'll always remember what he said to
him was what this professor would have
said to us
tell me what's the difference between
what you're doing
with that professor of yours and two
dogs
having sex in the street
i was laughing and laughing because
you know to me he was still showing the
signs of his christian
upbringing he was still acting out very
much the same script that had been
inculcated into him as a child
and yes he'd taken on new vocabulary and
new
verbiage and new modes of excuse making
but it was the same
guilt trip and i responded this by
saying
oh well you know uh for one thing they
were indoors rather than outdoors
how how much different do you suppose it
should be
oh to me and and what it says it was you
know
do you think of human sexuality
as something that's just a few steps
removed from the angels
do you think of this as something divine
and transcendental that's therefore
profaned that's therefore you know
revealed to be something terrible and
shameful by being compared to what
what dogs do or what monkeys do i mean
are you still so uncomfortable with
looking in the mirror
and accepting that biologically you're
something not so different from a dog
yourself or something that's
different from a monkey yourself you
know uh
although there are certain ethical
judgments
i might pass myself on any or all
of the four people in this love
quadrangle that
by the way did not involve me in any way
i was merely an observer and
i guess a friend several people involved
uh
although i might judge many of these
relationships to be
morally dubious or just kind of
aesthetically questionable
the professor's attitude his harsh
condemnation
and and where it was he imagined he was
drawing this sense of uh moral
superiority from
you know his sense of authority in
ruling on this matter
that was just absolutely laughable to me
and to me it showed that
his life having gone through various
ideological
permutations from one degree to another
in the most
important ways he was still living an
unexamined life
the refusal to allow human sexuality
to be shallow is itself
shallow the insistence
that human sexuality is of
spiritual significance
is itself shallow fundamentally
i resist and reject the spiritualization
of my sex life for the same reason that
i reject the spiritualization of my
diet ultimately eating food
is just a biological function i do have
to make
ethical decisions about it i do have to
care about the ethical consequences
that's why i'm vegan but i'm not vegan
for spiritual reasons
it may be easier to embrace the message
of spiritualizing your sexuality
when it comes from a new age guru who
speaks in terms
of meditation or who even sells
dildos as a side project here on youtube
it may be easier to accept that message
when it comes from that kind of figure
than is to accept it when it comes from
an authoritarian
jewish christian or muslim tradition
but when these people are telling you to
embrace
your sexuality what they're really doing
is alienating you
from your sexuality they're saying that
your sexuality
doesn't belong to you it belongs to this
ideal
this abstraction this fixed notion
they have of what sexuality ought to be
and if what you do with your sex life
doesn't measure up to that fixed
standard
then just like my buddhist professor
then whatever you do
is going to be condemned as no better
than a dog
i think the most fundamental evil in
this puzzle
is wanting to know things that you
cannot possibly know
or refusing to admit to yourself your
own vulnerability
that is ultimately based in ignorance
wouldn't it be reassuring
to have this sense of spiritual mission
in your sex life so that you don't have
to deal with the gnawing doubt
for example have i fallen in love
with the right person have i fallen in
love with a good person
should i trust this person there's
something quite different from whether
or not you do
trust this person you may trust them but
maybe later on you can realize that you
shouldn't have trust them
people think of skepticism as something
that only applies to sort of textbook
philosophy
but it applies to these most intimate
decisions in our lives as well
in chapter 8 of my book just in the
process of writing
i came up with this image where it's
like look it's not the difference
between
seeing something and being blinded to
the truth
it's the difference between driving a
car where you're aware
that you don't have a rear view mirror
where you're aware
of what it is you're not seeing and
you're concerned about what you can't
see because you know that there's no
mirror
that as opposed to someone who really
imagines there is
a working mirror in this car someone
whoever's often glances at the mirror
and takes for granted
that they're assured of of what it is
behind them they imagine that they know
something
that they can't possibly know in this
way a spiritual mentality
no matter how secular it may seem no
matter how inviting no matter how
hedonistic no matter how self-indulgent
in this way a spiritual attitude leaves
all of us
blind ultimately it cuts you off from
the full range of the experience of your
instincts it cuts you off from the
process
of learning because all of that begins
and
involves that most fundamental sense of
doubt
that you can't know that you can't trust
other people
that you don't even know what it is you
want let alone
what other people want let alone what
will make the two of you happy together
that's a very fundamental doubt that
should never be taken away from people
and replaced with faith faith allows you
to live your life
with the false sense of confidence that
you already know
precisely what it is that you never can
tell